mile 21 or green mile

In this day and age where there is pletora of activities,where one can choose from to stay fit and healthy,jogging has relieved me of stress and emotional strain.It is one of the sports where it is quite convenient as you dont need any gear.Jogging is one of those activities that seem to perfectly embody the concept of healthy,relatively cheap and accessible physical activity that has health benefits.Jogging developed as a counter to the ill-effects of habits entrained by the increasingly sedentary lifestyles of modern industrialized urban and suburban dwellers.

It started out as a show of machoism and fun thing. I along with a set  of friends ran a 10k marathon intially without any prior practice.I was able to complete it but the pain and suffering caused by the run got me grounded for couple of the days.Upon introcepting,I thought that the body is capable of doing any extreme task if you have the will.And developed a  penchant for it.Thus began my journey.I was 18 then.My experience has been far and wide so far.Everyday i am becoming more voracious for miles.I start my day at 5 in the morning and be on the road munching my way through day's quota.Initialy when we started this journey it was a very difficult because having been able to run couple of hundrends of metres intially ,i started to ask questions as to why am i doing this to myself.I wanted to run more but my mind and body were working together to make me not to.The mind will be screaming loudly inside your head to stop,this is when you have to keeping pushing.As they say beating the competition is relatively easy but beating youself is a never ending commitment.Always remember that when your your body says it is done, your are only 40 percent done.So keep pushing!!.

 
I worked up the ladder during the course of time and was able to cover a distance of 6kms by the end of 2 weeks.I followed the 10 percent rule that states that you got to increase the distance in 10 percent increments.I was very proud of myself and always beleive that Mind of the man is capable of anything.
So after a month,my body had acclimatized to the stress of jogging,i was prepared to run a marathon and confident enough that i would finish it.I enrolled in a 21k marathon and was nervous about it,because i had never ran that much ever and having known that there will be presence of many athletes against whom i will be competing with.On the day of the marathon,the ambience was a sheer thrilling,exuberant and noisy atmosphere.The start wasn't a start,it was a riot as the runners were held back by the police.And the sheer noise!Spontaneous bursts of sound as hundreds of people suddenly started chanting or singing Or dancing Or running in zigzags Or stopping to pose after 500m.In the beginning,the run was good,I was enjoying it but down the road it got so painful,my knees started to pain and feet started to sore.But the people who ran along with me, encouraged me to keep up and not give up.I made a lot of friends that day.People tend to empatize with you because they would have experienced the same kind of difficulty as i have.But overall it was a wonderful experience and was able to complete the race.The takeaway from this that in long distance running you have to be strong and smart.

Running has helped me take pragmatic decisions in my life and taught me valuable lessons.It taught me that there is no destination in life, you can call a place as a destination when you stop running and say no more.I would like to push my body to the limits,to see my body deteriorate.I like running because it gives me freedom,I can determine my own course and think whatever I want.Nobody tells me what to do.It lets me stay in the moment I am in,because the only hard and fast rule to running is that you simply keep putting one foot ahead of the other.You got to take care of the present, because it's all you have got.


My inspiration to take up this has always been Roger federer, who even at this age has been consitent in his performance and has been able to live up to dreams and beyond. “Like books, sports give people a sense of having lived other lives, of taking part in other people’s victories. And defeats. When sports are at their best, the spirit of the fan merges with the spirit of the athlete.”  as quoted by Phil Knight in his book Shoe Dog.
All these runs has changed my lifestyle and has improved my overall mood.It has helped me maintain the perfect balance of mental stimulation and physical fitness.
so always Experiment, find what makes you comfortable.

I would like to conclude my blog by a qoute from Dean Karnazes who is a Ultramarathon runner and a great inspration to all of us:"Struggling and suffering are the essence of a life worth living. If you're not pushing yourself beyond the comfort zone, if you're not demanding more from yourself—expanding and learning as you go—you're choosing a numb existence. You're denying yourself an extraordinary trip."



"You have power over your mind—not outside events. Realize this, and you will find strength."—Marcus Aurelius
I think Life is like a marathon,It's full of ups and downs that take your breath away.

