Too little compassion too late:CAA

CAA,The Citizenship Amendment.India's "Hong Kong" movement.The bill that became an act in December on receiving majority support by both houses of the parliment promises citizenship to minorities from neighbouring countries. This has sparked the fight against the government. Umpteen protests,communal hatred and obloquy exchanged from both sides of the fight. The protests are ebbing gradually sidestepped by the trepidation of epidemic caused by the "Novel coronaVirus". 


I would like to consider this bill as the bill that protects humanity against the atrocities commited by the neigbouring countries on the minority population. We hear reports from Neigbouring counrtires especially from Pakistan where girls from Hindu,Sikhs community are abducted, force converted into Islam and married or remarried to an Muslim man. What gobsmacked me was that the Pakistan law fails to validate the marriage who wed according to Hindu rituals. So the couple who marry according to hindu rituals are not married and there is no goverment backed certificate to prove so and the wife is forced to remarry a Muslim man and threatened. This practises are against the rights and inhumane. This results in ebbing of the hindu popluation. India's consitution doesnt involve any religion.India has no law that discrimates based on religion. We are a secular counrty. We have the most diversified demography in the whole world.Why cant we show some sympathy,humanity to these poor souls. With the ongoing war in Iraq and Syria people who fled the war are taken in by many neighbouring countries. This is the same act of humanity that this bill proposes to do so.

The opposition to bill was started by the agitation in the northeastern states and their anger is palpable. their resentment is that this bill which promises citizenship to refusees migrating from neighbouring countries based on religion victimization are disturbing the balance. Non- natives are on the rise and therefore threatening to endanger their culture.What started as a fight to support the movement and the people spiraled into protests between the government and the students. This is probabaly because of the confabulations spread widely in the minority groups in India. In this era where all have access to internet should just read the law,understand it properly and stop disturbing the communal harmony. I think this is what's happening now. People have realized that this law doesnt threaten their citizenship and have no reason to justify the vandalism,hence the rise in protest against inhumane police actions.

The government should have educated the people about the law before it became so. Due to poor communication,preparation and lack of political acumen,the protests gained momentum. The situation in India at that time was like dropping a frog in a pot of boiling water. The vast minorities of India were upset because of the abrogation of article 370 relating to kashmir and the Ram mandir verdict, they were furious to act against the government. The frog jumped out. But if you put the frog in a pot of cool water and then slowly boil it, The Frog cooks.If the government had schooled the public like organizing rallies,which they did later after everything was destroyed, probabaly it would have blunt the momentum. 


CAA is an "internal matter " to India. Why do some countries want to poke their noses in every action of the Indian goverment. Why dont the same countries protest against China who have detained Chinese Muslims and deprived them of their rights. All these countries see is  that right to freedom of speech is punished when these rights are used to destroy property,livelyhood and communal harmony. Why dont they come to terms with Pakistan and advice it to stop this forced conversion. This process of conversion has seen a rise after the now Prime Minister of Pakistan came to power. The population of minorities has fallen to low levels. Its too late to show them any compassion. 

All said and done, the protests continue on till date and many lives have been lost.

With this comes the challenge and the complexity.

I yield to fact that this act does not give details on migrants who fled because of economic reasons to find better livelyhood. Now even these citizens are given citizenship because of the fact that they come under the bracket. And also it does not consider countries like sri lanka,myanmar and tibet where many people   


vandalism.     


Welcome to the new decade!!!.
what a decade it was. a decade that slingshotted and encapsulates the evolution of mankind,after becoming bipedal.From smartphones to world wide web, from autonomus driving cars to self landing resuable rockets,from cryptocurrency to deep fakes. Humans are growing by leaps and bound in terms of technological advancements.
And it was also the decade where we faced economic repression, rise of militant groups.And now A decade that be promises a war. Many of us woke up panicked and hastags started gaining momentum. we could relate this crisis to beginning to previous decade where the crisis was financial but this decade threatens the end of mortals. 