Music : the language of humanity 

Music has long been the world's most important means of entertainment.
According to the Oxford dictionary,music means the instrumental or vocal sounds or  both combined in such  a way to produce beauty of harmony and expression.
We love to sing,play,listen to,and dance to music.Like many audiophiles I have had the fascination of what music has with the emotional power.
How can a combination of sounds make all the hairs on your arms  stand out or make you cry.Music is an art,pleasure,medicine for the soul and the body.
All the cultures have universal responses to it.It is the language of humanity.


Before we indulge into the topic,I would like to give a brief description of myself.
Half a decade a ago,if you were to meet me you would see a shy,not so confident person and more like a introvert.
I would have kept to myself mostly and not interact with anybody.And it is not because  I was smart or independent person but rather it was fear.
The fear of making mistakes and be judged.The fear to talk to somebody prevented me from making friends,the fear to experiment ensured that I lived a subdued life.
This held me back from improving myself,or doing something that would have encouraged me.Even though I took the intiative, I would fall short everytime.
I regret that I have bow-downed to fear and missed a lot of opportunities especially in my school life.
But soon a piece of wood would metamorphosis me.A GUITAR. I think everyone has the urge to play an instrument,everyone has a person who they admire and would like to emulate them but not everyone puts in the effort to learn one.
I loved guitar and was captivated by the way the guitarists fashion their guitar and their hairstyle.I wanted to have the good old cliche hairsytle and headbang when playing.
This fueled me by and large to start taking up classes. Though the initial months were tough on my fingers, the imagination of showing my skills off to people stimulated me to spend more time on it.I worked my way through the classes learning something new every weekends. I transitioned from being a neophyte to a intermediate in a year.I started jamming, with aspiring musicians from music class, few popular songs.
Fast forwarding in time to present, I feel more confident,more patient and my fear growing smaller.I am comfortable with hanging out with people who I know barely.I am evolving with each interaction.I am learning to seek discomfort.

Music now is not the same old cliche thing where you would groove to or play it for pleasure, it has found its way through into science. Music has helped and is helping people to recuperate. For instance the American congresswoman was hit by a bullet to the brain, as a result of this she was unable to speak but with the help of melody,rhythm and music she relearnt the art of speaking. So music in a way is encouraging the learning of speech.
https://abcnews.go.com/Health/w_MindBodyNews/gabby-giffords-finding-voice-music-therapy/story?id=14903987
And there is Music therapy, which is becoming a popular in the music industry and in the medicine community. Recently I  found that it is being used in gait therapy, so the musicians have to find a kind of song that helps the patient to ambulate,that is of the right tempo that suits their needs.Many studies have touted the benefits of music on mental and physical health.
One study has found that it improves the immmune system and reduces stress and listening to music is effective than drugs in reducing anxiety.


