"use alcohol to help them fall asleep. But while alcohol, a depressant, can help you fall asleep faster, it also contributes to poor quality sleep later.

It can interrupt your circadian rhythm.

While you may fall asleep quickly after drinking, it's also common to wake up in the middle of the night. One explanation is that alcohol may affect the normal production of chemicals in the body that trigger sleepiness when you’ve been awake for a long time, and subside once you’ve had enough sleep. After drinking, production of adenosine (a sleep-inducing chemical in the brain) is increased, allowing for a fast onset of sleep. But it subsides as quickly as it came, making you more likely to wake up before you’re truly rested.

It blocks REM sleep.

Another reason people get lower-quality sleep following alcohol is that it blocks REM sleep, which is often considered the most restorative type of sleep. With less REM sleep, you’re likely to wake up feeling groggy and unfocused.

It can aggravate breathing problems.

Alcohol causes your whole body to relax, including the muscles of your throat. And that makes you more prone to snoring and sleep apnea."

"It leads to extra bathroom trips.

Typically, your body knows that nighttime is time for sleep, not time for trips to the bathroom. That means that your body has learned to put your bladder into hibernation for the night. But alcohol, a diuretic, can make you need to go more, interrupting your normal sleep pattern."

Many prescription and over-the-counter drugs can impact sleep: Some cause insomnia, while others disrupt sleep quality or trigger daytime drowsiness. 

The challenge with medication is that each person responds differently to its sleep-related side effects.  If you suspect your prescriptions are impacting your sleep, speak with your doctor, who will be able to suggest a solution that works best for you. Potential options include switching medications, reducing dosage, or seeking alternative treatments. Following healthy lifestyle habits such as exercising, eating a wholesome diet, and managing stress can also help reduce sleep-related side effects.   

Circadian rhythms are controlled by an area of the brain called the hypothalamus. Other influences include light (which sends a message to your brain that it’s time to wake up) and darkness (an indicator to your body that it’s time to release melatonin, a hormone that helps you fall asleep). Regular sleep patterns—waking up and going to bed at the same time daily—also keep your circadian rhythm functioning normally, helping to reduce the chance of sleep trouble such as insomnia.

Beyond these factors, there’s another important variable that influences your internal clock: sex. It turns out, male and female circadian rhythms don’t exactly match up. Men’s clocks tend to run truer to a full 24-hour cycle or longer (on average, men have a circadian cycle that’s six minutes longer than for women ) meaning they may feel less tired in the evening. In women, the internal clock is more likely to be shorter than a full 24-hour cycle, making it more likely that they will awaken earlier, which may also increase their susceptibility to early-waking sleep disturbances like insomnia.


"Dream content often relates back to what’s happening in your waking life. If you’re experiencing low stress and plenty of satisfaction in your day-to-day life, you may have more positive dreams.  By contrast, if you’re depressed or anxious during the day, you may have more unpleasant dreams and compromised sleep quality at night."

"The good news is that while you cannot control your dreams directly, you can work on improving your state of mind during the day. This, in turn, may help improve the quality of your dreams—and perhaps sleep—at night."

https://www.sleepfoundation.org/sites/default/files/inline-images/modernFamily-electronics_1.jpg

"When it comes to your health, sleep plays an important role. While more sleep won’t necessarily prevent you from getting sick, skimping on it could adversely affect your immune system"

To stay healthy, especially during the influenza season, get the recommended seven to eight hours of sleep a night. This will help keep your immune system in fighting shape, and also protect you from other health issues including heart disease, diabetes, and obesity.  If your sleep schedule is interrupted by a busy workweek or other factors, try to make up for the lost rest with naps. Taking two naps that are no longer than 30 minutes each —one in the morning and one in the afternoon—has been shown to help decrease stress and offset the negative effects that sleep deprivation has on the immune system.  If you can’t swing a half-hour nap during the workday, try grabbing a 20-minute siesta on your lunch hour, and another right before dinner.

Having an occasional strange dream isn’t unusual—but sometimes they can border on a nightmare, resulting in stress and lost sleep. If that sounds familiar, you’re not alone: More than 50 percent of adults have nightmares or intense visions at night. The latter are known as lucid dreams, and can be so vivid that you wake up certain they really happened. They go beyond run-of-the mill stressful dreams (like the ones where you’re running late for an important meeting and all the doors are locked, or you show up at a party only to realize you’re not wearing any clothes). Lucid dreams can feel incredibly real and may leave you shaken as a result. Understand more about this kind of dream and learn tips for better sleep—fast.



"On average, we spend about 30% of our lives asleep, and we have little idea why. This ignorance is probably the main reason why our society has such little regard for sleep. At best, we tolerate the fact that we need to sleep; at worst, we think of sleep as an illness that needs a cure. This attitude is not only dangerous but unsustainable. Sleep is a highly complex state that arises from an interaction between multiple brain regions, neurotransmitter pathways, and hormones, none of which is exclusive to the generation of sleep. This complexity makes sleep very vulnerable to disruption. Small changes in brain function can have a big effect on sleep, and disrupted sleep leads to many health problems.
It is important to stress that sleep disruption is much more than an individual's frustration at failing to initiate or sustain sleep, or even the sensation of feeling sleepy at an inappropriate time. Disrupted sleep is closely linked to an increased susceptibility to a broad range of disorders, ranging from poor vigilance and memory to reduced mental and physical reaction times, reduced motivation, depression, insomnia, metabolic abnormalities, obesity, immune impairment, and even a greater risk of cancer."

"Sleep is an important part of your daily routine—you spend about one-third of your time doing it.  Quality sleep – and getting enough of it at the right times -- is as essential to survival as food and water.  Without sleep you can’t form or maintain the pathways in your brain that let you learn and create new memories, and it’s harder to concentrate and respond quickly."

"Sleep is important to a number of brain functions, including how nerve cells (neurons) communicate with each other.  In fact, your brain and body stay remarkably active while you sleep.  Recent findings suggest that sleep plays a housekeeping role that removes toxins in your brain that build up while you are awake." 

"Everyone needs sleep, but its biological purpose remains a mystery.  Sleep affects almost every type of tissue and system in the body – from the brain, heart, and lungs to metabolism, immune function, mood, and disease resistance.  Research shows that a chronic lack of sleep, or getting poor quality sleep, increases the risk of disorders including high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, depression, and obesity."

"Everyone dreams.  You spend about 2 hours each night dreaming but may not remember most of your dreams.  Its exact purpose isn’t known, but dreaming may help you process your emotions.  Events from the day often invade your thoughts during sleep, and people suffering from stress or anxiety are more likely to have frightening dreams.  Dreams can be experienced in all stages of sleep but usually are most vivid in REM sleep.  Some people dream in color, while others only recall dreams in black and white"

Millions of people are using smartphone apps, bedside monitors, and wearable items (including bracelets, smart watches, and headbands) to informally collect and analyze data about their sleep.  Smart technology can record sounds and movement during sleep,hours slept, and monitor heart beat and respiration.  Using a companion app, data from some devices can be synced to a smartphone or tablet, or uploaded to a PC.  Other apps and devices make white noise, produce light and use gentle vibrations to help us sleep and wake.

Related Health Connection
Lucid dreaming may be associated with narcolepsy, a clinical sleep disorder that causes people to fall asleep quickly at any point during the day. Many people with this condition report having extremely vivid, strange dreams that feel true to real life.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/321731.php
https://thesleepdoctor.com/2017/11/15/truth-alcohol-sleep/
https://www.webmd.com/sleep-disorders/news/20130118/alcohol-sleep#1
https://www.healthline.com/health/sleep-deprivation/effects-on-body#5
https://www.healthline.com/health/sleep-deprivation/effects-on-body#9
https://www.healthline.com/health/yoga-for-insomnia#1

Tired minds don't plan well. Sleep first, plan later.